Re-examining the prevalence of chaos in ecological time series, after Rogers et al. (*Nat. Ecol. Evol.*, 2022), while accounting for uncertainty in false positive and false negative rates of chaos detection methods and the presence of nonlinear stochastic dynamics.

For simulations of misclassification of noisy signals as chaotic, ar1.m is the Matlab code for simulating numerical realizations of an autoregressive model of order 1, that is the AR(1) model detailed in the Supplementary Table 8 in the Supplementary Information of the Rogers et al. original article. PE.m is the Matlab code for estimating permutation entropy according to the definition and normalization followed by Rogers et al. Numerical realizations of fBms were generated by using the wfbm function included in Matlab. Further details can be found on the following link https://la.mathworks.com/help/wavelet/ref/wfbm.html These files were used to generate the data presented in Fig. S1. The simulation can be similarly conducted in the Mathematica language with the code in fbm-analysis-archive.nb

For Bayesian analyses of the prevalence of chaos in the GPDD data, use "rstan_code.Rmd".

The script "stochasticity_tests_code.R" provides the code for running stochasticity tests on the GPDD time series. The user-defined functions "embed_udf.R" and "predict_np_udf.R" are associated with this script. The outputs of the delta-epsilon test for presence of determinism are provided in the folder "result_plots". 

The script "simulation_stoch_detect.R" provides the code for running simulations to test the accuracy of methods used to detect chaos and stochasticity in time series. The user-defined functions "nonLinearMaps.R", "npe_heuristic_udf.R" and "predict_np_udf.R" are associated with this script.
